January 27, 2026

Welcome to Prime Therapeutics (Prime) Quarterly Drug Pipeline! We invite you to dive into our clinical insights and competitive intelligence on anticipated drugs in development, so you are well-sourced on the drug pipeline.

Methodology
The drug pipeline is complex and fluid. Our talented and committed team of clinical and analytics experts are excited to bring you this robust publication after thoughtful research.  
Here’s what’s featured in this edition: 
Specialty and traditional drugs covered under pharmacy and medical benefits 
New molecular entities  
New and expanded indications for existing medications 
Biosimilars 
Regenerative medicines, such as gene and cellular therapies 
The Quarterly Drug Pipeline details both agents submitted for FDA review and those in Phase 3 studies with a likelihood to apply to the FDA. Our Deep Dives consider the evidence, the products’ potential to fill an unmet need or become the new standard of care and the ability to replace existing therapies.   
A market agnostic financial forecast primarily from Evaluate is included for select agents to assist payers with assessing the potential budgetary impact of the pipeline. Five-year projected annual U.S. sales are forecasted for select agents.
Reflection
In 2025, the FDA approved 46 novel drugs – trending down from prior years (50 novel drug approvals in 2024, 44 in 2023) but close to par with the FDA’s 10-year novel drug approval average of about 47 per year. Half of novel drug approvals in 2025 were for Orphan Drugs. Moreover, 72% of novel approvals underwent at least one or more of the Agency’s expedited programs to speed approval for serious conditions, with almost a quarter as Accelerated Approval (up from 14% in 2024).  
FDA’s Accelerated Approval pathway allows for earlier approval of drugs to treat serious conditions, and fill an unmet medical need based on a surrogate endpoint thought to predict clinical benefit. This designation can be challenging for payors to manage, since approval is based on a surrogate endpoint. Confirmatory trials are needed to confirm clinical benefit for these drugs to remain on the market.  
On the biological front the agency approved 12 biologics (11 in 2024) and higher than the 10-year average of around 9 per year.  
Combined, the FDA approved 58 novel agents in 2025, putting the count above the 10-year average of 56.  
In 2025 the first product received approval under the FDA’s new Commissioner’s National Priority Voucher (CNPV) pilot program which is awarded to companies that align with national priorities.  
While numbers do not tell the entire story, they represent innovation for patient care and have the potential to advance health for the American public. 

On the horizon
The FDA decisions for specialty medications (68%) and for Orphan Drugs (39%) in the pipeline continue to grow for agents with applications submitted to the FDA. Six agents are seeking FDA’s Accelerated Approval. Several approvals are expected under the FDA’s CNPV pilot.  
First quarter 2026 may usher in notable approvals. Select highlights include: 
High-dose version of SC Wegovy for weight loss 
First treatment for a rare, debilitating and potentially life-threatening blood disorder 
First therapy for a rare inherited mitochondrial disorder that leads to vision loss 
A once-weekly option for a type of dwarfism  
First once-weekly basal insulin for type 2 diabetes  
A sublingual film formulation of epinephrine for anaphylaxis  
We hope you enjoy the report! 
  Maryam Tabatabai
Associate Vice President, Clinical Information

Maryam Tabatabai, PharmD
Editor-In-Chief
Associate Vice President, Clinical Information Data Scientist Principal 

Carole Kerzic, RPh
Executive Editor
Drug Information Pharmacist Principal

Nicole Kjesbo, PharmD, BCPS
Executive Editor
Clinical Program Development Director Senior 
  Consultant panel

Andrea Henry, PharmD, MBA, BCPS  
Drug Information Pharmacist Principal

Danny Melson
Data Scientist Principal

Katie Owen, PharmD, BCOP 
Clinical Program Pharmacist Principal

Olivia Pane, PharmD, CDCES
Drug Information Pharmacist

All brand names are property of their respective owners.

The drug pipeline is fluid; the dates and information within this publication are subject to change. Nothing herein is or shall be construed as a promise or representation regarding past or future events and Prime Therapeutics expressly disclaims any and all liability relating to the use of or reliance on the information contained in this presentation. The information contained in this publication is intended for educational purposes only and should not be considered clinical, financial, or legal advice. By receipt of this publication, each recipient agrees that the information contained herein will be kept confidential and that the information will not be photocopied, reproduced, distributed to, or disclosed to others at any time without the prior written consent of Prime Therapeutics.

The Deep dive section features an analysis for select pipeline drugs that are expected to be FDA-approved in the upcoming quarters. Selected agents are expected to have a high clinical and/or financial impact on healthcare. Agent selection considers the evidence — the products’ potential to fill an unmet need, become the new standard of care, or the ability to replace existing therapies. Typically, Deep dives focus on new moieties, however, existing drugs that may offer a novel mechanism of action for existing conditions may be featured. Agents granted designations from the FDA to expedite review and/or support development and evaluation of pipeline drugs are also considered.

Specialty drug names appear in red throughout the publication.

Notable agents that are further from approval have been identified in this unique watch list. These are products with the potential for significant clinical and financial impact. Their development status is being tracked on the Quarterly Drug Pipeline radar. These pipeline products, their respective class or proposed indication, as well as an estimated financial forecast for the year 2030, are displayed. The financials are projected total annual U.S. sales, reported in millions.

The pipeline drug list is an aerial outline of drugs with anticipated FDA approval through 2028. It is not intended to be a comprehensive inventory of all drugs in the pipeline; emphasis is placed on drugs in high-impact categories. Investigational drugs with a recent Complete Response Letter (CRL) are also reported.

© 2026 Prime Therapeutics LLC